Welcome to session 411,
Designing for Security.
We've got a lot of very exciting
things to tell you about today.
There's going to be two presenters.
Conrad Sauerwald from the
Data Security Group will
be talking first,
and then I'll be taking the latter
half of the session and talking
about some other exciting things.
So here's what we're going to cover.
We're only going to be
highlighting some key points.
We don't have a lot of time
to go into great detail.
We're going to talk about system
facilities and techniques you can use,
and hopefully we'll give you some
takeaway points that will at least
help you with some of your issues.
So here are the areas
we're going to cover.
We're going to cover data security,
then system security, secure coding,
and then we're going to talk
about process sandboxing,
which is a technology preview of
what we hope to put into Leopard.
So here we go.
I'd like to introduce
you to Conrad Sauerwald,
who's going to talk about data security.
Hello there.
So I'm first going to talk about a
topic that doesn't come to mind that
quickly when people talk about security,
which is data security.
When you say security,
you're often immediately looking
at buffer overflows and such.
And while, you know, as a user,
you prefer that your
system runs smoothly,
beyond that,
if you start getting a little bit
into the user's perspective on things,
you actually start looking at the user's
data and seeing how that is actually
really valuable and not that often
thought of when we talk about security.
So,
The topic obviously ought to be like
you're writing an application and
you're managing the user's data.
What can you do to keep that data safe?
So, first question,
do you manage sensitive data?
Well, you know,
that's kind of a question that has
multiple answers because obviously
often you will have data that can be
sensitive and other times it may not be.
It really depends on what the
user may do with your application.
If you write a word processor, well,
you know, they are obviously going to
write a sensitive document
with it at some point in time,
but it may not necessarily be like
the core strength of your application.
In those cases, users have, of course,
the possibility of using the built-in
facilities like FileVault and
encrypted disk images to take care of
keeping their data safe themselves.
Beyond that, applications may not just
manage the actual content,
the actual data to be kept safe.
So, the key chain is a key chain
that is stored in the key chain.
But also passwords, symmetric keys,
and more these days as well,
public-private key pairs or
identities for the user that they
use to use certain services and that
can then be stored in the key chain.
To go a little bit beyond using
a key chain for passwords,
the benefit of keeping
identities in there as well is,
of course,
that if you use a public-private key
pair that is stored in the key chain,
then the actual crypto can be
done in the security service.
So, that the secret is never given out.
So,
that is an extra strength of using the
key chain for those types of things.
Now, beyond that, you may go like, well,
that's all great and nice,
but why don't I just roll my own?
Well,
we really want to discourage you from
doing that because it's just hard.
So, I'm going to go through a couple of
slides and try to give you a better
perspective on what we offer and what
things you'd need to take care of in
case you actually think of doing this.
So, first one, that's really one that
you cannot stay away from.
It's like the data handling.
Once you hold the sensitive data,
you've got to make sure that
there's no traces left behind,
and this is really hard to
do because often you'll take
a piece of sensitive data,
you'll use it through an API,
it creates a nice object for you.
You didn't get to say
what allocator to use,
how this was going to be stored,
and when you say like, hey,
this object I no longer need it,
how is it going to be cleaned up?
So, yeah.
That's a really hard area,
and the only reasonable possibility
you have right now to handle that is
really system-wide and just turn on
secure VM to make sure that anything
gets swapped out to disk gets encrypted.
But beyond that,
you get into areas where if you're
rolling your own and you have a
deficiency in your protection scheme,
well, there you go.
There's a big portion of maintenance
for you as well as now you're
dealing with the key material
yourself instead of having security.
So, you've got to have security server,
as I mentioned,
when you use it through the key chain
as a third process that can handle this
so that it only gives you results that
were produced out of using this key.
So why use the system facilities?
First of all, this is a lot of work.
It's a lot of code to write.
Now, once you're done with writing it,
the next step comes,
which is really testing this whole stuff.
And testing is actually not as
simple as you test your application.
Your application works
or it doesn't work.
Testing it also becomes partially
seeing if you can break it,
if you can circumvent it
and all these other things.
And that's going to add to the
time that it takes to test it.
And then, of course,
there's the maintenance.
And maintenance is not just
make sure that it works,
but you're working with a lot of
stuff that changes in the world.
Certain hashes are suddenly
not that good anymore.
Now you sign up for the work of keeping
this secure and trying to run that
arms race with what is secure today.
So system facilities then also
provide all of their stuff through
an API that kind of hangs around.
And it goes through multiple versions
of your application that you roll.
So it will always be there.
And as it improves,
it will try to implement the best it
can do on the back end while you just
have this one API to work towards.
Another positive aspect of putting
passwords in the key chain is that
when people start using a particular
application and they use a username
password to connect to a particular
server for some service that they use,
then they switch to a
different application.
Say you've created a much
better application that
they'd really like to use.
If the password is already
in the application,
then you can use it.
If the password is
already in the key chain,
it actually makes it really
easy for the user to just say,
like, it's okay that that
application starts using it,
too.
They'll get a dialogue.
They can say that's okay
and then be on their way.
So that's a good usability aspect.
And the other thing that even if
you build a whole security system,
the one thing that you probably don't
have time for is to also scale it,
make it appropriate for your audience.
If you look at a
standard install of OS X,
the first thing that happens is
you have an auto logged in account.
Well, it's all great and all,
but your key chain is now unlocked and
that may be perfect for you because
you're not connected to a network.
You don't really care.
Now, if the user decides, like,
I have a funny feeling about this,
I'd really like to just
have a password to log in,
they can turn auto login off.
As you continue,
you can start setting stricter
access control lists on the items
so that applications that want
to use your passwords at least
show up as trying to use it.
And from there on out,
you can start having multiple
key chains to have different
classes of information that have
different strengths of passwords.
One can be a simple one
you can type easily.
One can be a much longer one
that you don't use that often,
and then it all remains usable.
So if that doesn't scare you
and you're continuing on,
let me point out a couple of more
things that you run into while
you're implementing this yourself.
I mean, obviously you can read up on this
because every system that's out
there has been written about to
prove to the world that this is it,
this works.
Everyone has seen this,
so I'm pretty sure that
there's no problems with this.
But that's a lot of work.
The second one is that--
Cryptographic protocols go
through a lot of revisions.
Most of the protocols we use today
have had changes happen to them,
and you have to go
through those revisions.
This goes back to that maintenance work.
After you implement the first one,
there's the second one that
you already have to do.
Third one, you may want to make it easy.
A user can enter a password
to use this service.
Well, that's great.
Passwords are, however,
not good key material.
You have to do something with
that password to make it good.
I mean, someone can type an
utterly long password,
but that doesn't make it a key yet.
I'm going to skip the password-based
key derivation function for the
moment and just continue on saying,
like, if you have, like,
a lot of data lying around, like, say,
like a file vault image,
and the user decides, you know,
I don't like my password.
I really want to change it.
You really want to
deal with a master key,
a key that actually encrypts the data,
where the user's password only
gives access to this master key.
So, beyond that though,
some of you may not be looking to
really just write all of the system.
You are just coming to the platform
with a bunch of code that needs
to use some basic algorithms.
And we've obviously advertised CDSA many
years as a very generic API through
which you can select whatever algorithms
you want to use for doing all your
hashing and your encryption purposes.
But that is not a very
drop-in replacement,
not something that's
very convenient to use.
As CDSA was used through the system,
obviously it goes to many lower levels.
And at these lower levels,
you don't want all that
complexity of the stack anyway.
You actually want some
more raw performance.
So, out of all of that,
we've basically distilled the
algorithms and pushed them all
the way down to Common Crypto,
which is actually a
library that becomes part.
It's a sort of lib system
that contains the algorithms.
Now, the rest of the system actually
uses this same library.
So, you know, it's already there.
You don't have to link
in another library.
You don't get into, you know,
link another library that you
have to stay compatible with.
It's just there.
And it contains algorithms.
Since Tiger has had cryptographic
secure hashing algorithms in there,
you may remember
Common Digest from there.
For Leopard, we've added,
and this is actually on the seed already,
HMeching.
So, if you're choosing to use hashing
as a method of authenticating,
like, a piece of text that you want
to do integrity checking on,
you want to use HMeching.
And encryption.
The API is generally pretty
much compatible with OpenSSL.
It's just, you know, initialize,
feed data, final step.
That's it.
To contrast Common Crypto to OpenSSL a
little bit and give you an idea of
what our thoughts are around that,
OpenSSL will obviously be
a little bit more complex.
It's there for portability.
You know,
some of the algorithms we also provide,
some of them we don't.
Depending on your application,
it can be much easier just to use it.
It does, however,
come with the out-of-the-box performance.
We have the benefit of looking
in Common Crypto and seeing,
like, what alternative implementations
of these algorithms have been
done that are possibly faster.
We have ways of modifying
it to our own content,
so to speak.
And the last one is really important.
The first one is really a
public service announcement.
If you are using OpenSSL,
OpenSSL has recently changed
from a version 0.9.4.
Well, not recently,
but we've recently updated
to 0.9.7 from 0.9.4.
And unfortunately,
those are not API-compatible,
although there is another SIM link
that points to a 0.9 version.
So technically,
that should have been a major version.
So you may run into some linking
issues as you go from Tiger to Leopard
if you're currently using Libcrypto.
With that, I want to quickly show you
the new APIs that we have.
So for encryption, we obviously offer the
basic suite of algorithms.
One thing about all the algorithms that
are in here that I want to make clear
is they're there for older purposes,
too.
If you just happen to need
some really ancient algorithm,
it's in there, too, just for that reason.
It's not something that we
recommend over the other ones.
You still need to do your homework and
figure out which ones you want to use.
When you use encryption,
it also turns on cipher block chaining
per default for the block cipher status.
There is still the common mode
in there that avoids the block
cipher chaining if you want to
implement alternate encryption modes.
And if you want to use it,
it also provides padding in case the
amount of data that you're trying
to encrypt basically will never
be like exactly a multiple of the
block size of your block cipher.
So padding takes care of that
to basically put in the message
some pointer to kind of suggest
what the actual size is.
Now, you don't really have to understand
that because as you use this,
there is the get output length
function that will tell you
what the actual length was,
and that will look at
the padding for you.
Now, if you are trying to encrypt
something and you are worried
about the data handling,
as I mentioned earlier,
there is also a way for you to
provide the data that's going
to be used in the context.
So the one that you already know
from Tiger is that we have the
secure hashing functions in there.
The difference is that that one was
named with the actual algorithms in
the name instead of actually taking
that as a parameter in the init.
The more important thing
that I wanted to point out,
if you have a program that already
uses OpenSSL and you just want
to give Common Crypto a role,
if you do a pound define of Common Digest
for OpenSSL and then include that file,
it will actually define some aliases,
which will make, like all the invocations
of OpenSSL that we support,
actually directly go through
Common Crypto instead.
And last, of course, HMAC.
Not much to mention about that.
The common digests are all included.
So that is all I have for data security.
Let me continue with system
security a little bit.
Now, the one bug to destroy it all
sounds a little bit cynical,
but if you look at it, you know,
it starts really with the whole story.
Your system is as secure as the whole is.
So, you know,
you only have to find that weakest link.
And if you're writing some secure system,
everyone is looking for it.
So it rings true when you are trying
to write a crypto system or you're even
just trying to deal with the use of,
like, resources and operations
that are restricted.
So I'm going to show you a couple of
example system services that actually
do some of this handling through
trampolines to give you an idea of how we
already support access to some of these
privileged resources and operations that
you can also use without having to write
your own programs to deal with those.
And after that,
I will go into a more general description
of how you can start your application to
have basically a similar architecture.
[Transcript missing]
So let's have a look at how you
would structure your own application,
and maybe it gets a little clearer on
how we arrived at this trampoline model.
So in the beginning,
there's your application.
It's nice.
It's happy.
It's sitting there.
But you want to use a
resource or an operation,
and those are technically
limited because,
well, otherwise we wouldn't
be talking about this.
So as your application needs to
access this resource or operation,
well, the most obvious thing is like,
hey, let's run it with privileges.
Oops.
This is a big application.
It contains a lot of code.
As you remember in the beginning,
I talked about having one bug in the
system is going to take everything down.
Well, that application is a pretty
big system right there.
So
This privilege is very crude.
You have the privileges
or you don't have them.
You cannot really temporarily turn
them off securely and then just
regain them at a later point in time.
That's just the reality of the
system we deal with right now.
But if you look through your application,
you can probably iterate through
the right items in there that
actually need these privileges.
You can define the operations that you
need to do that require the privileges.
So if you structure your application
such that you can identify
those as individual functions,
like do it here,
then you can start lifting them out
and putting them in a separate process.
So we put them in a tool and we
move them out of the application.
And now the application can run
without these privileges again.
The tool is the one that
has the privileges and that
will do some limited work.
It has a limited amount of code,
so it's easier for you to audit that
it will behave as you expect it to.
Now, as you move it out,
there is another point that
you need to take into account.
Your application may have been
linking with an external framework.
And, you know,
these frameworks generally,
when you start with an application,
are fairly high level.
High level applications
are nice and flexible.
They have, like,
lots of functions and they have lots
of interesting implicit behavior
that you maybe did not know about.
So, when you're trying to
create an application,
or in this case,
the tool with the privileges
to operate in a way that,
you know, you accept,
it's going to be hard.
So, the framework in the application,
that's just fine.
But if you move that tool out and have
that tool use a high level framework,
you're in for a lot of ugly surprises.
So,
you have to try to keep that tool limited
to using the lower level frameworks.
I cannot really give you, like,
a safe frameworks list because
we don't really keep one.
But you can see, you know,
what's going on.
the reality is on the
system as it exists.
So let's move that resource or
operation thing out of the way for
a second because the tool has kind
of taken its place as being the one
that has the privileges and that we
have to focus on for a little bit.
So now that the tool is
outside of the application,
we have one other thing
that we have to fix here,
and that is, well,
the application needs to make
sure that it talks to this tool.
It needs to make sure that it is
talking to the tool that it expects
to do the work that it wants to do.
There has to be a relation
where the application knows
who's going to do this work.
And on the other side, the tool,
of course, has to go ahead and see, like,
well, who am I doing this for?
It now completely lost context.
It's out there by itself.
It doesn't know who it's working for.
So somehow the tool has to also
be given a form of context so
that when it authorizes operations
or authenticates people that it
knows who I'm doing this for.
So let's talk a little bit about
this inter-process communication.
There's a bunch of
low-level communication
mechanisms that you can use.
Now,
one that I already described a little
bit and I will go into now is the one
where you can inherit a file descriptor.
Now, if I make this tool such that my
application launches the tool,
then I have the parent-child
relationship through which I can
gain a little bit of information.
But one other thing that is possible
in those situations is that if the
application opened the file descriptor
to a file that does not have a
backing store in the file system,
it can have put some
information in there.
Now, that information is only accessible
through this file descriptor,
and as you execute into the tool,
the file descriptor goes to the tool,
and the tool can now also read it.
So if the two have an agreement
that the application writes it in,
starts the tool,
and the tool can read it out again,
then you have a way of passing
some information through.
One particular instance that uses
this is the authorization execute
with privileges trampoline.
And, of course,
this is all in the Darwin sources,
so if you want to have a look
at how that would work for real,
you can have a look at that one.
Another mechanism you can use is
communicating over Unix domain sockets.
Now, this has very limited possibilities.
It's a little bit better
than a file descriptor,
which really is kind of
a one-shot operation.
While communicating over domain sockets,
at least you can keep a couple
of sessions going and you can
go through a couple of commands.
With that, though,
you have the opportunity of
finding out who your client is.
Because if you use, for example,
a streaming socket,
which is the one that you
have to use to get this,
local credentials can be passed along.
So your tool getting this request
can actually figure out what the
UID was of the user on the other side
that asked you to do this operation.
A much higher level one,
and you notice that I'm
skipping Mach messaging here,
is distributed objects.
That's a very high level tool.
I put it on here not as a glowing
recommendation of trying this out,
but that's one that you may
already be familiar with.
The unfortunate problem with it is
that it's so flexible that for you
to try to use it safely requires a
lot of research and a lot of work,
so it's very, very tricky.
If you don't note them into every detail,
it's going to be hard because, well,
it's a very flexible system.
You send messages,
they get delivered to whoever
actually can implement them.
Do you know whether you're
talking to the proxy?
Are you talking to the real object?
As you find beyond that is, of course,
that these invocations are
very much unstructured.
Anything could be sent across,
but you want to make sure that only
the things that you allow in your
protocol actually can send across.
And for that,
you'd have to use a protocol checker.
That, in short,
is my recommendation against it.
All in all,
this is really about trying to secure
the endpoints of this authentication.
Between these two parties,
and for the server to find the tool,
and for the tool to figure
out who its server is.
So one other mechanism you can use,
I've described these tool and server
connections where the only thing
that they really shared was the UID,
which is nice and all,
but that doesn't really tell
you much about the fact whether
the user did this himself.
If he installed a piece of
malware that started running,
then the UID might have just been,
you know, the user never accepted
that this was going to run,
that this was going to happen.
The application just ran with
the privileges of the user that,
you know, came across it.
A way to make this more flexible
would be to use authorization.
I'm going to quickly go over
the principles to give you an
understanding of what it is because,
of course,
we've talked about this in many sessions,
but there's new people coming
to the platform every day.
So authorization is
basically about the question,
do I have a certain right,
and getting the answer yes
or no in response to it.
Now, it does not imply any
privileges in itself.
If you have the right,
there's no way that anyone
is going to see this.
You can share this handle that
you have for this authorization,
pass it to someone else,
and then configure it out,
but the system by itself does not
imply that you have privileges.
In that, we have a third party,
the security server, which is the process
called security these days,
that operates as the middleman.
So it will sit in the middle.
You will ask it to get authorization
to do a particular thing.
You will get a particular
right to perform an operation.
Then you pass it to the
tool out of our example,
and the tool will be able to
ask the impartial middleman,
like, hey, what do you think?
Does he have the right to do this?
And if everything went
well at that point,
the answer will be yes,
and then the operation can be performed.
Now,
the right in itself does not do anything.
So security has a database in the
back end in Etsy authorization that
contains a description that tells it
what to do for this particular right.
All right.
So that basically gives you an out.
And for administrators, you could ship,
for example,
a very strict policy just for
your own benefits that you
don't have to deal with any
Well,
insecurely shipping your application
and allowing the administrator
who may not have such high
restrictions to lower that.
The policy lives now
outside of your application,
outside of the tool.
It's kind of inspectable by
the administrator to see what
you normally require and how
they might want to change that.
Another thing it does for you
is transparently handle the UI.
So the UI we handle through
a different process.
So neither your application nor
your tool actually needs to have
real possibility of providing GUI.
And both could be just
command line tools.
The only thing that is required is,
for right now,
that the client that is in this operation
actually lives in a GUI context.
Because the only way that we
know how to interact with the
user is in a GUI kind of a way.
In the future,
that might be a way to do that.
So we've realized that we improved that,
but for now, there's not.
And a third feature that is kind
of interesting is instead of
giving one user the authorization
to do a particular operation,
you could actually just avoid it.
And for once or twice that he
requires that kind of authorization,
you could come in there,
type your username and password for them,
and allow them to do this operation once.
So you can restrict it even
further than just giving people
access to it all the time.
So now quickly moving back to the
situation that we ended up with.
We have the tool living
outside of the application.
Now,
how does that tool have these privileges?
Well, obviously,
it needed to get them somehow.
So most often, the tool will have to
set your ID bit set.
Well, this is, of course,
the start of a new problem because that
tool lives in a hostile environment.
Everyone can just run it,
and it will still have those privileges.
It's not just your application
that's trying to use it.
So let's have a look at
a couple of the threats.
that exist.
So there's the tool,
and there's some environment, and, well,
there's a couple of problems
that happen with this.
Some are more obvious,
some are slightly more intricate.
The ones on the left,
arguments and environment variables,
often seen as basic user input
that you'd have to check.
Well, you know, that's all good and well,
but it goes a little further than that.
Say that you have a framework that
has some implicit knowledge of,
hey, if that argument gets passed,
I'll do something special.
So an argument can have an expectation.
It can have an expectation that it's
going to get a lot of results for you,
and that's a reason why that
needs to be kept in check.
Same goes for environment variables.
I was just talking about
high-level frameworks,
but DYLD supports an option where you can
kind of insert a piece of code and say,
go ahead, take that along with you.
Now, I have to say, of course,
with that one,
this situation doesn't exist
because the framework will actually,
the library in this case,
will actually figure out, hey,
you're running with set-duty privileges.
I'm not taking any of this random
user input that might have been faked.
I'm just leaving that alone,
and we'll just continue as normal.
I mean, we're turning that feature off
for this particular situation.
The third one, kind of surprisingly,
because I've described it as a
way to securely talk to your tool,
are file descriptors.
Now, the case may be that your tool
wants to write out a standard in,
standard out, or standard error.
Well, you know,
those have the notion of canonically
sitting at these file descriptors 0,
1, and 2, but that's just convention.
That's not necessarily to be there.
So, if you do not use standard in,
standard out, and standard error,
you may want to dupe those to def
null and make sure that nothing
leaks out of there accidentally.
And lastly, process limits,
which is even more intricate.
Every process can put
certain limits on itself,
and, well,
those limits may actually cause
the program to work slightly
differently than it did before.
So, say that I limit the process to
not be able to open any files.
Now,
if you don't do enough error checking,
and you go through your code path,
and you try to open the file,
and it doesn't work,
but you didn't do the error check,
now we have basically created a
new code path through your code
that you may not have tested for,
and it may have unexpected results.
So, one way to go is, say,
I'm going to avoid this
whole set UID business,
and I'm going to let
LaunchD do this work.
Now, LaunchD is nice in such that you can
basically set up your helper to go.
You can tell it what privileges it has.
What privileges to run with.
It will sanitize the environment,
and all of that is under control now.
It doesn't always have to run.
It can demand launch it
when it's necessary again.
So, those are really nice features, but,
of course,
the problem changes with that in
terms that you only tell LaunchD where
the process is that needs to be run.
You give it a path.
If the directory where that
tool exists is not very secure,
and you can just replace
another one in there,
LaunchD will just launch it for you,
and that's fine, too, for it.
So, that is another way of solving it,
and it has its own problems that
you're going to have to deal with.
-
If you're interested in more of
these intricacies about changing code
and how to protect it against it,
of course, there's a session after this
coming up on launch day as well
as a session on code signing.
If you have any interest in that area,
I suggest you go see those.
Those are sessions 4.13 and 4.14,
respectively.
So with that, quickly some documentation.
You can look up about the things
that I've talked about via
the Apple Developer website.
Follow the breadcrumb trail
because the URL is hard to parse.
You go through the reference library,
the Darwin section,
then the security subsection,
and you can find security overview
that will tell you a little bit about
the facilities that are in the system.
And AuthSample describes more
or less how the AuthExec with
privileges trampoline works.
So that will give you an idea how
you can implement such a thing.
For LaunchD,
I have to refer you to the man pages.
There might be some
documentation coming up.
I'm not aware of that.
And for authorization, of course,
look at the File and Security Framework.
And then any questions in the area
of data security and authorization,
you can join the Apple CDSA mailing
list and talk with the whole
data security group where we'll
happily answer your questions.
And with that,
I want to ask Simon back on stage.
Thank you, Conrad.
So we're going to switch
gears a little bit here.
We're going to talk about secure
goading and some easy ways to
eliminate frequent flaws that show up.
So I'm going to emphasize
the reference library again.
In May 2006,
Apple released a secure coding guide,
which is there,
which covers all of the material
I'm going to be talking about and a
whole number of additional things.
So it also contains references
to other books and online
resources which can be useful.
The guide that Apple has published
is specific to the Apple platform.
So I'm going to talk about two
things in the secure coding section.
I'm going to talk about buffer
overflows and integer overflows.
And I need to say,
why did I pick those two things?
If you take the big bundle of
security vulnerabilities and you
throw out the 52% of things which
were stupid mistakes in your coding,
you just got the logic wrong,
or you just did something wrong,
you're left with 48% of
technical vulnerabilities.
40% of those vulnerabilities are either
buffer overflows or integer overflows.
So if you can eliminate those,
you can eliminate a huge number
of vulnerabilities in programs.
Now, also, buffer overflows and integer
overflows are a big risk to your
customers and to your users.
So why is that?
A buffer overflow usually
kind of manifests itself as
like a crash or a data loss,
and it's an irritant.
And you want to swat it, and you say, ah,
horrible.
It's mostly harmless at this point.
The problem is that there
are things with bigger byte.
There can be a vector for worm, virus,
or spyware.
So the only thing that takes
you from the irritation,
really, to the big bite is motivation,
experience, and time.
And the bad guys out there have that.
That's what they do.
They look for crashes.
When they get a crash,
they start poking around,
and they start manipulating it.
So their target is to take things which
are an annoyance and turn it into a
vector for a worm virus or spyware.
So,
what's a sign that you have an overflow?
This is an example where I took a
little program that I hacked up.
It took me five minutes to do in Xcode.
And it had a text field,
and I copied it into
a stack-based buffer,
which was too short.
And I just entered a
whole bunch of characters,
capital letter A.
And this is a PowerPC crash.
And you can see there
that the capital A's,
the 41, 41, 41, appear in the crash dump.
And they appear in the crash
dump in quite a few places.
So, this is a sure sign that
you've got a buffer overflow.
If you start seeing them in the link
register and various other registers,
you can get a similar
dump on an Intel platform.
So, usually engineers,
when they see this,
they kind of get mad and they go, ah,
why is somebody doing this?
They go through the stages of grief,
they get the anger,
and then they get the denial.
So, they go and then say,
I need to prove that
this is an exploitable,
right?
This isn't a problem for me.
Well, doing that is very, very hard.
The cone of effort you have to
go to to prove that a buffer
overflow or an integer overflow
isn't exploitable is huge.
It escalates very, very rapidly when you
start looking at the code.
And so what does a bad guy have to do?
Well, all they have to do
is find one code path,
right?
It's much easier for them to find a
vulnerability than for you to prove
that it couldn't possibly be exploited.
So one thing to take away here is
that it's almost always faster to fix
the problem than prove it's benign.
So let's talk about stack frames.
This is the usual place
where buffer overflows occur.
I've got a PowerPC stack frame
here and an Intel stack frame.
They're laid out a little differently,
and the names are not quite the same,
but they're generally
the same idea holds.
So what happens in a buffer overflow?
You usually have a local variable
that's allocated on the stack,
and you overflow it,
and you corrupt either saved
registers or the bookkeeping that
the compiler does for returning
and going between functions.
Now, for Leopard, we do, in fact,
have no execute stack turned on for the
Intel platform and for G5 processors.
We can't do that for G4s, unfortunately,
but that will be on by default.
This does cause some problems
for certain types of functions.
GCC, for example, uses stack trampolines
for nested functions,
which means if you're using those,
you'll have to turn off
the no execute stack.
Now, no execute stack doesn't
solve all your problems.
The bad guys, well,
you know they're bad guys.
They've got lots of time.
They've figured out ways to get around
all of the no execute stack stuff.
They do return into libraries,
and then they also do heap overflows.
They can all try and switch their
area of focus to heap overflows.
So what you're seeing here is a layout
of the MacOSX malloc allocator.
It's a little different than
traditional Unix allocators.
There are no pointers
between the buckets.
That data is held in a separate area,
so you have contiguous memory.
You can see that the data
is held in a separate area,
so you have contiguous memory.
And then when you get
very large allocations,
they get to go directly
to the VM subsystem.
So here's a picture of a buffer,
and when you overflow it,
it goes into the red area.
And for Objective-C and C++ objects,
that's very bad.
So why is that very bad?
Well, for both of these objects,
the first thing at the beginning
of the object is a pointer.
It's a code pointer.
So if you can overflow an input,
you can overflow an input.
And if you can influence that pointer,
you can make the program
jump somewhere else,
maybe back into the data again.
So you're basically
going to get exploited.
This is a little harder, but again,
the bad guys have the time and the
effort and the will to go and do this.
So what's the easiest way in C-like
languages to eliminate buffer overflows?
And we're talking about C here.
If you've got a high-level
language that has constructs
for strings that have lengths,
then please use those.
What I'm talking about here
is very frequent mistakes
that people make in just C.
They use functions on the red side.
Don't use those functions.
They're really bad.
They're going to get you.
Everybody will say, yeah,
I know how to calculate this.
You know,
if I multiply this by this and add one
and take off one when I do the malloc
because I have to account for the zero,
then maybe it's all right.
Very,
very difficult to get these things right.
So what I recommend is you use the stuff
on the green side and use the strlcat,
strlcopy for both strcat and strcopy.
The n functions,
I don't recommend using those,
and I'm going to show
you why in a second.
For sprintf,
use the n versions where you're actually
accounting for the space that's used.
So another takeaway point here is use
unsigned variables for calculating sizes.
You never get a negative size buffer.
They're always positive.
They always have real value.
And use the save functions
for all new code.
Sometimes it can be very difficult
to go back and retrofit old code,
but if you can write new code,
then use the new functions.
In fact, certain quality,
if you read papers on software quality,
75% of, or a way to improve your code by
75% is to juggle the same code as
the same code as the same code.
introduce new practices and change
the way that you write code.
So let's compare STR copy, STRN copy,
and STRL copy.
Now we're going to start out with a tiny
buffer that's actually going to fit.
So we're going to take
those three functions,
and then we're going to see what the
result of running those functions are.
Now, in each case, we're fine.
No buffers or overflow.
There's no buffer overflow.
The overflow is in the red area.
So let's start again.
This time we're going to take the
source string to be a little larger.
It's the same functions again.
Now what happens with strCopy?
Well, you get owned.
You've overflown the buffer,
you're in the red area,
you're running somebody else's code.
That's game over.
So that's bad.
What happens with STR in copy?
Well, you're okay.
You don't actually overflow the buffer,
but there's something a
little fishy about this.
That's not a zero.
For a correctly terminated C string,
this isn't the correctly
terminated C string.
So if you try and use that string
in additional code later on,
you're going to go into the red area.
So you've got an overflow here,
but it's a little bit more
subtle than a buffer overflow.
So this is also bad.
And there have been hacks that have
used this to actually cause problems.
So what happens with STRL copy?
Well, STRL copy does the perfect thing.
It doesn't overflow the buffer,
and it always zero terminates.
So you don't have to add that little
extra piece there that either puts it at
the beginning before you do the STRL end
copy or afterwards to actually make
sure that the last character is zero.
So this is good.
Definitely use STRL copy and STRL cat.
So in summary, think the L means total
length of the buffer.
This is a subtle difference between
the N versions and the L versions.
The STRL versions always use
the total length of the buffer
when doing calculations.
This can simplify the
arithmetic in your code,
you know, amazingly.
You can get rid of all those,
if I add one, take off one,
to adjust for the end of the buffer.
You don't have to do any of that.
You just give it the size of the buffer.
You always give it the
size of the buffer.
So this reduces the need
for complex length tracking.
If you do, in fact,
overflow the buffer and it couldn't
put all the characters into the buffer
that you wanted to put in there,
the return value from the
L functions is a little different.
And it tells you the actual
length you would have needed.
So if you wanted to go back around
and allocate some more memory and
really use that length string,
you can.
Now for Leopard,
we actually implemented these
functions in the kernel.
So for Leopard,
you can use these functions in the KEXT.
And in fact,
we would very much like to deprecate
the use of the non-N versions.
And people do use those versions
in the kernel scarily enough.
Please don't use those
versions in the kernel.
Use the L versions.
So let's move on to integer overflow.
They're kind of related to
buffer overflow in that if
you get an integer overflow,
you normally end up
triggering a buffer overflow.
So here we have some unsigned arithmetic.
We've got 1, 2, 3, and we added 1 to it,
and we got 1, 2, 4.
Now we've got another integer,
and we add 1 to it,
and suddenly it's become
a negative number.
And in Hex, if you remember your two's
complement arithmetic,
the last line shows you why that is.
The top bit suddenly flips on
and all the rest are zeros.
So in that last line of that box there,
1024 plus 2147483647,
is that less than zero
or greater than zero?
If you're using signed arithmetic,
that will actually turn
out to be a true statement.
Now,
if that data is coming from the user,
then you're basically going
to be trying to fit something
that's too big into a small spot.
Because if you then feed that
to Malik to try and get some
area to actually store the data,
you're going to get up
a smaller data region.
And the data that you're going
to try and put into it is larger,
so you're going to get an overflow.
So the real problem
here is external data,
things that are provided
to you by the user.
Maybe you don't really think of
it as being provided by the user.
It's an image on a web page, for example,
and you're using WebKit or
something like that.
Or you've got your own image
code for processing images,
and you have a width and a
height and the number of pixels,
the depth of pixels.
Well,
if you multiply those things together,
they overflow very quickly.
And I've forgotten the number.
It's not very large.
When you multiply numbers
together like that,
you run out of space really quickly.
In fact, probably in the next couple of
generations of cinema displays,
you'll be able to overflow.
But you'll be able to overflow that if
you multiply those numbers together.
I'm sure about it.
So another common thing that people do
is they take a count and they multiply it
by the size of an object because they're
going to create an array of structures.
The Malik of zero,
if you can magically make
that come out to be a zero,
the Malik of zero,
although it allocates zero space,
isn't actually a zero pointer.
So if you're testing for null in your
code to see whether the Malik failed,
it won't fail.
It will succeed.
So you really do need to be
careful with integer overflows.
Now, unfortunately here,
this is a little bit of a tease.
Compilers don't and cannot help
you with integer overflows.
This is a runtime problem,
and the C specification doesn't have
any help for you in detecting overflows.
You kind of leave that as a sort of
a process or implementation detail,
so you have to either code it yourself
or get some help from external libraries.
The publicly available tools
don't solve the problem very well.
You can find some C++ classes that try
to help you with integer overflows,
or that's one common library,
and it uses template overloading.
If you're using C++,
you could potentially use that.
The Civa things that are out
there force you to use unsigned
ints and aren't very helpful.
So we actually would like to
provide something for everybody in
Leopard to help with this problem,
but we weren't quite ready for WWDC,
so I apologize for that.
This is a little bit of a tease.
There's more coming in this area.
We know it's a big area,
and it's important.
So here's a summary for overflows.
You have to be very careful about
statically sized stack-based buffers.
They are the real red
area for buffer overflows.
Avoid dangerous string functions.
Only use the safe ones.
If there are higher language features
or frameworks available to you,
such as CFString or other mechanisms
which can handle buffers of size,
then use those.
Check for arithmetic overflow
and use unsigned arithmetic
when manipulating buffers.
They always have positive size.
Do not trust user input.
Most of the time,
users will provide you very nice input.
The bad guys don't.
That's the first thing they go after.
They have these things called fuzzers,
which try to manipulate the data so
that it goes outside the bounds you
would have normally programmed for.
So again,
a pointer to the ADC reference library.
There's a secure coding guide there.
So okay,
now we're going to talk about sandboxing.
This is a technology preview.
This is new in Leopard.
It doesn't exist anywhere else.
This is very experimental.
So here we go.
Why do you want sandboxing?
Why is sandboxing important?
Well, on any kind of operating system,
and in particular MacOSX,
your application has access to
all of the resources that the
operating system provides you.
So you can access files,
there is networking,
and then there are other
applications running on the system.
And it will interact with them.
Now what happens if you have one of
these floors that allows somebody to
inject code into your application?
Well, once they've injected that
code into the application,
then that row code has access
to all of those resources.
Everything.
If you've got photographs somewhere
off in a particular place,
that row code has access
to your photographs.
It may not be photographs,
it may be credit card numbers,
it may be anything.
It has access to everything
that application has access to.
So as users, what would you really
like the behavior to be?
If you have an application,
you want that application,
let's pick Safari.
You want the application to
behave like a web browser.
You want it to do web
browser type things.
It can maintain a cache
of its image files.
You want to be able to save pages.
And you want to be able to
download stuff to the desktop.
You want it to go out onto the
network so that you can retrieve
and browse around and have a great,
rich experience.
And sometimes you want to make
it talk to other applications
to have hyperlinking through.
So in this environment,
what does a user really want?
What do they expect?
And so I think it would be reasonable
to expect that if you get rogue
code inside the application,
that that rogue code,
the only things it can do is do damage
to the things that Safari can do.
So it can only modify the cache
files maybe that Safari is keeping.
It doesn't necessarily have carte blanche
access to download things or modify
files anywhere that Safari can do.
And so it can only modify the cache
files maybe that Safari can do.
So it can only modify the cache
And it can't talk to
other network places.
It can't phone home to Bulgaria and
squirt data over there,
although that's a very
hard problem for Safari.
And for other applications,
you don't want it to be able to
go around and fire up all sorts of
other applications on the system.
So that's kind of what the user
would really want to have happen.
Well,
that's what I would want to have happen.
I don't know about you guys.
So we don't want--
The bad code to access any files that
are outside of what Safari could access,
we don't want them to be able
to go and talk to websites or
particular services on the network
that we don't want them to talk to,
and we don't want them to
talk to other applications.
So how are we going to manage that?
So here's the sandboxing
implementation that we currently have.
It's based on mandatory access control.
This was talked a little bit
about in the kernel session.
A process can have its own sandbox.
There is not a limited
number of sandboxes.
It's not predefined.
It doesn't require privilege to use.
So an unprivileged application
can put itself in a sandbox,
but you cannot escalate privilege.
So you can't say,
I'm going to put this thing in a sandbox,
but I'm also going to give it access
to write into the root directory.
You can only create sandboxes that have
less privilege than you currently have.
This is included in the developer seed.
The sandbox is defined
right now by a text profile.
There are three examples in
the seed in user share sandbox.
And the whole design of the
sandboxing mechanism is designed
to be cooperative with apps.
So we designed this in a way so
that if you're building an app,
you would think about building a profile,
a sandboxing profile to
go along with that app.
So let's talk a little bit
about the profile language.
I said that it was a text-based language.
It is very provisional.
It's subject to change.
There are things we
would like to add to it.
We're sure there are things that
you would like us to add to it.
So we want your feedback.
We definitely want your feedback on this.
The profile, at its basic level,
consists of rules and filters.
It ends up getting compiled
for the policy engine,
which executes up in the kernel.
So there's strong enforcement here.
There are three examples, as I say,
shipped on the developer seed in there.
You can go look at there.
And after this session,
there will be a little cheat sheet
and a language definition for
the profile language available
at this session's developer page.
So here's a very simple example.
I'm going to give a demonstration
of this example a bit later on,
so you'll have to memorize
everything on the screen here
to make sure I'm not cheating.
At the top here,
there's a version number.
We're definitely going
to make some changes,
so we're trying to point out that this
is going to change and subject to change,
so don't build any products
based upon this language.
There is a debugging facility,
which we've got turned off right now.
In this profile,
everything is denied by default,
so you get no access to any operating
system resources by default.
Parentage allows things like fork, exec,
and spawn to actually operate.
And because this example
and the demonstration is
going to be running a shell,
all of the sub-processes
need to get launched.
So I need that.
SysControl read-only,
that's a little bit of
boilerplate that we need for DYLD.
That's reading some system
configuration information.
And we're not going to
allow any network access.
So in this demonstration,
it won't be possible to make any
network access off the machine.
For this process.
So then there's a couple of lines
to allow DYLD to load and then
for applications to load and run.
And then here's the little example.
I'm going to allow
reading the file readme,
but not writing or removing it.
So that's any path on
the system that says,
read me.
I'm going to be able to read it,
but not write to it or remove it.
I'm going to deny reading
any file named secret,
but I'm allowed to write to that file.
And lastly,
any other file I can read on the system.
So that was a little introduction.
The general form of the
language is a sequence of
operations followed by an action,
whether that currently is allow or deny,
and then you can apply
filters to that action.
And those filters for path
names and string-like objects
are regular expressions,
and that's also true for
network addresses and ports.
It's a little regular expression-y.
Sorry, I'm getting a look from one
of the implementers down here.
So here is the list of
operations that can be performed.
This is described,
the actual documentation and explanation
of what all these mean is in the
documentation guide that you can
download from the session website.
The regular expressions,
they're mostly POSIX 0.2.
Then there's no backtracking
allowed in regular expressions.
And there are some additional
character classes that we've
defined that allow construction
of the strings a little easier.
So in these examples,
there's a file name and paths which
eliminate access to dot and dot dot,
so you can't escape out.
So this is an excerpt from
the profile that's shipped
on the Leopard Seed for NTPD.
And what this actually does here is
allow NTPD to access the network.
It allows it to modify the
NTP configuration file and the key files.
It allows it to read those two files,
I'm sorry.
And it allows it to write the
NTP drift file and a temporary
file when it's renaming that.
And it also allows it
to create the PID file.
It also allows the time to be set.
So this example, if you apply it to NTPD,
when running, let's suppose that NTPD,
tomorrow somebody finds
a buffer overflow.
If you were running under this profile,
the attacker would not be
able to exec any programs.
The only files they will be able to write
to are the etc.ntp.conf and keys file,
the drift file, and the pid file.
No other files on the system will
be accessible by that program.
And that's pretty much, you know,
that's what they could do.
So the only things that they
could do if they exploited NTPD,
they managed to generate a buffer
overflow to try and exploit it,
is they could do the same things as NTPD,
which is not very exciting.
You're not going to generate a
self-propagating worm that does any
damage to a system using NTPD like that.
Okay.
You can do a denial of service, maybe.
Okay, yeah,
we're going to have some questions later.
Sorry.
You can't harm the user system.
So here's a usage example.
This tool is also on the Leopard Seed.
There is a sandbox exec program,
and you can provide it either
a path to a profile or a
profile string in its entirety.
You can also use this mechanism to
launch programs via launchd by prepending
sandbox exec to the launchd command.
And we also have a little API for
launching things into a sandbox so that
an application can also launch itself
into a sandbox and get some cleanup.
So now I'm going to show
you a little demonstration.
All righty, so now we're going to,
just to show you that we've
got network access here.
Okay, that's a text version
of the Google web page.
Very exciting.
[Transcript missing]
I have the secret file
and I have the profile.
So this is the same profile
that was up on the slide.
And now we are going to...
So the profile doesn't allow,
I'll just go over this again,
it allows fork and exec.
So when I run this profile,
I'm going to be running bash.
So I want to allow sub-programs to run.
They inherit the sandbox.
I didn't actually say that earlier,
I should have.
It does not allow any network access.
It allows DYLD to operate so
that it can load programs.
And I can read the readme,
but I can't write to it or remove it.
And I can't read the secret
file and every other file
I can read on the system.
So here we are in the sandbox.
So let's show that-- so we're not
able to connect to the network.
So it says permission denied.
So here's the README file.
It allows me to do that still.
I can't access the secret file.
So I also am not able to
remove the readme file.
So I'm going to add
something to the secret file,
and that allowed me to add
something to the secret file.
But-- whoops.
I still can't read the secret file.
So let's exit out of there.
So we're now back at the regular shell.
And, oops, I guess I don't have
completion turned on.
So there's the secret file
again out of the sandbox.
Can we go back to the slides, please?
So here's a summary.
This is a technology preview.
This is subject to change.
We would like you to play in the sandbox,
do some things with it, send us feedback.
We have documentation after the session,
which should be up in the session area.
There's some sample profiles
in UserShare sandbox.
There's a header file in UserInclude
sandbox for using the API.
There's a binary on your
system that you can play with,
userbin sandbox exec.
There is a mailing list,
which does not quite exist yet.
I'm not sure when it's going to show up.
SandboxingDev@lists.apple.com.
That's the list we would like
people to use to send us feedback,
suggestions on this technology.